hello again ladies and gentlemen I'm Joe
Hindy from android authority calm and in
this quick video we're going to take a
look at the Android M preview okay folks
this video is going to be broken up into
two parts part one will be the stuff I
did see in part two will be the stuff I
can't see but I know it's coming soon
let's get right into it so real quick
the first thing you'll notice is that
Android M doesn't look all that
different from lollipop it's more or
less the same in the notification shade
the home screens most apps and in the
settings if you've used stock lollipop
before you'll be able to easily find
your way around some of the minor
changes we noticed for some graphical
changes in the app drawer to include
letters for easier navigation hey Do Not
Disturb button in the notification shade
and the simplified volume which kind of
melts all the various volume modes into
one thing and it actually looks a bit
more simple in the settings you can tap
the Android version to get your
background with a fairly nondescript m
in the middle if you tap it a bunch of
times a little dude will pop up all like
I don't know what's going on I see what
you did there Google no clues as to the
name of Android app in the developer
options you'll notice that you can now
switch between a dark and a light theme
this is handy although not the theme
customization we were all hoping for I
actually prefer the dark theme it's a
little bit easier on the eyes well we're
in the developer options you can now
enable the system tuner which allows you
to rearrange your notification quick
settings including trashing them if you
don't want them and you can always reset
if you mess up to bat the new google now
on tap is in the M preview kind of for
those who don't know that now on tap is
google now's new feature to ascertain
what's going on and then give you
suggestions based on that the
functionality is there but the ability
to use it is currently turned off for
the time being they'll turn it on
eventually i'm sure some other minor
things you'll notice are some slight
animation changes here and there keith
myers on google+ noted that on the nexus
9 the notification shade will drop down
in different places depending on where
you slide it down for easier access with
your thumbs little stuff like that is
everywhere for what it's worth the new
google photos application is in clue
the Android M build in a weird role
reversal Josh Vergara is actually going
to take a look at that application in
another video so keep an eye out for
that it is there and it is freaking
awesome the last thing I'll talk about
here are the Apple Inc's during google
i/o they talked about how applications
will be able to take control of links to
their content and automatically open
their application for it this is kind of
included in Android M as you can see
this Twitter link goes directly to
Twitter without asking me first and it's
also there in the settings it's a small
thing but it is there okay I'd lied
there is one more thing there is a thing
called ignore optimizations in the app
section from what I can tell this allows
applications to ignore battery saving
optimizations and continue to function
at full power it may be part of the
doe's feature I'm not quite sure I do
know that Google Play services is turned
on and locked that way which I'm not
happy about it all the google play store
and download manager are also locked on
here's the thing folks this is day one
of the Developer Preview so there are
some things there and some things that
aren't Google will surely update over
the course of the coming months as new
features become available the api's are
all there but no apps use them yet so
it's kind of hard to look at the deeper
features with that said let's get on to
part two during my testing I wasn't able
to check out the new permission system
because it's not available just yet in
this new permission system you won't
agree to permissions when you install
applications but you will agree to them
when the application actually needs them
and you can approve or deny them then
however part of this system is in the
preview you can go to the settings and
check out which applications have which
permissions and then turn them off from
there so the back end is present just
not the google play store part of it you
can in fact deny app permissions without
root in Android M another feature I
looked for and couldn't find is the
chrome custom tabs this is a built-in
version of the Chrome browser that app
developers can add to their applications
so they don't have to build their own
in-app browser while still retaining the
features of google chrome during i oh
they showed it on the Pinterest
application as you can see the version I
have access to still uses their custom
and app browser so that's something
we'll see as more developers support it
unfortunately Android pay is not in the
Developer Preview at least we couldn't
find it the tat
pay section is still in the settings but
it's essentially empty there are any
applications that use those features
anyway so it makes sense that Android
pay was not present while I'm on the
topic I couldn't play with the
fingerprint scanning capabilities either
because they are also not included even
if they had been my Nexus 5 doesn't have
a scanner so I couldn't use it anyway
that's something that'll probably come
in a future release whether or not the
power saving feature called dozes here
is unknown to me currently I've had the
preview installed for three hours now
but the phone has been on the entire
time so I haven't seen it yet more
testing will be needed to see if it's
even there even if it is it won't be all
that useful for phones anyway it's
really more of a tablets thing the last
little bit that I couldn't find include
the direct share and the new copy paste
they mentioned in the i/o keynote it's
still the old copy paste methods and if
direct share is there I guess I haven't
shared enough for it to pop up or it's
simply not there yet that about does it
for this video folks I'll leave you with
one last thing and that is that the
preview works really well I haven't had
any system crashes or apps acting up
except for the one thing with the system
tuner I only installed about 20
applications so there are probably
issues here and there that I don't know
about yet but moving around the
interface is pretty slick and I didn't
find anything that warranted a mention
if you haven't already don't forget to
subscribe to android authority and don't
forget to check out android authority
combo will be covering as much android
and stuff as we possibly can thanks for
watching everybody and have a wonderful
day